Modem (#6)
hostmobility/documentation: docs/interfaces/modem/modem.md

---
title: Modem
tags:
    - MX-V
    - T30
    - T30 FR
    - MX-4
    - CT
    - CT GL
    - C61
    - HMX
---
## Overview 

> The products diffrent products that is provide has diffrent ways to call the modems. So on this page is only focus is to show what is the same on all modems provided in our products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ways to communicate with the modems differ between products. This page shows what is common for all the modems provided in our products.
```

## Platform specific

[HMX](../hmx/modem.md)

[MX-V](../mxv/modem.md)

[CT_GL](../c61/modem.md)

[C61](../c61/modem.md)

[CT](../mx4/modem.md)

[T30/T30fr](../mx4/modem.md)

## Communication channels
- Quectel
    - Radio /dev/ttyUSB0
    - GPS   /dev/ttyUSB1
    - AT commands  /dev/ttyUSB2
    - 4G/LTE /dev/ttyUSB3
- Gemalto
    - Radio /dev/ttyACM0
    - GPS   /dev/ttyACM1
    - AT commands  /dev/ttyACM2
    - 4G/LTE /dev/ttyACM3

## Controlling the modem with AT commands

> ### simple read and write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Simple read and write
```

```
cat /dev/ttyACM2
echo "AT+CFUN?" > /dev/ttyACM2
```

> ### better way to read and write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Better way to read and write
```

Use microcom to connect to the modem. (Exit microcom with `CTRL-X`)

```bash
microcom /dev/ttyUSB2

> #or for pls8 modems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# or, for PLS8 modems
```

microcom /dev/ttyACM2
```

#### To get more informative error messages, you can type:
```
AT+CMEE=2
```

Expected reply
```bash
OK
```

## Test mobile network

> * List all current network operators with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* List all current network operators:
```

```
AT+COPS=?`
```

* After 20--30 seconds, you get something similar to:

```
+COPS: (1,"3 SE","3 SE","24002",7),(1,"Telenor SE","TelenorS","24008",7),(1,"Tele2","Tele2 SE","24007",7),(1,"TELIA S","TELIA","24001",7),(1,"TELIA S","TELIA)
```

> ### Check status of pin code protection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check status of PIN code protection
```
